WHERE DID YOU GROW UP?  WHAT WAS YOUR ACADEMIC PATH?

I was born in India, but I pretty much grew up in Fremont, California, which is
a brisk Bart ride away from Berkeley. I went to a really competitive public high
school (Mission San Jose High, you may have heard of it. I think it sends the
most students to Cal from a single school). So yeah, I had my fair share of
exposure to a competitive academic atmosphere before getting here, but Berkeley
has definitely been a huge step up in terms of the challenge.

HOW MUCH PROGRAMMING HAVE YOU DONE?  WHAT LANGUAGES?

I took CS10 in the fall of 2010 (also the first time it was offered), and that
was my first time programming! To be fair, I've been a computer junkie my whole
life, and I did a small amount of web design in high school. And actually back
in my elementary school days, I programmed a turtle to move across the computer
screen in a language called Logo. My first year at Berkeley, I picked up
Scratch, BYOB, and Scheme. This past summer I learned Perl during an internship,
and I am now learning Java, thanks to CS61B.

WHAT ARE YOUR HOBBIES?

Let's see...I love basketball, both playing and watching. I also like long runs. I
enjoy watching movies, including Hollywood and Bollywood. I also like making
short videos once in a while. I love messing around with and exploring
technology, and I am huge junkie for Apple devices. I also like to read, but a
lot of what I read happens to be short form content on the web (I have 40-50+
blogs on my Google Reader)...Yet, my iPad hasn't quite yet replaced my occasional
desire for a nice paper book.

WHAT ARE SOME OF YOUR TALENTS AND SKILLS?

I have a fair amount of skills revolving around technology: graphic design,
video editing, fixing computers, and general computery stuff. I've also been
shooting and editing video for almost 6 years. Some of the softer skills I like
to think I have: empathizing with others, turning complexity into simplicity,
coming up with cool ideas, and working with kids.

HAVE YOU EVER DONE ANYTHING REMARKABLE?

The accomplishment I am most proud of is the school-wide television station that
I co-founded during my senior year of high school. When I started the station
with my good friend Jerry, it was basically a team of videographers, anchors,
and journalists, going to every school event and filming each of them, and then
creating a 12 minute show to be shown in every classroom at my school. The best
part: in the 2 years since I graduated, the TV station has gone on to become a
full-fledged on-campus organization, rivaling the school newspaper, and is
complete with a 15-person manager team running the show. There's a lot of
satisfaction to be gained from being able to look at something alive and making
impact, and saying, "Hey, I started that!"

WHAT COMMITMENTS WILL BE CONSUMING YOUR CYCLES THIS TERM?

Looks like this is shaping up to be a pretty busy semester. Aside from a few
pretty heavy courses, including CS61B and EE20, I'm also taking UCBugg, where
will I learn how to animate a short film. I'm also working at Rescomp this year,
which is pretty awesome - I'm getting paid to fix people's computers, something
I've done for free for my whole life! In addition, I'm also interning at the
site http://www.iwillteachyoutoberich.com/ - working with someone I greatly
admire. Oh and I might try out for a Bollywood dance team, but we'll see where
that goes. ;)

And as for CS10, I am a reader and also a Co-TA, teaching a section with Samir
and Max. 
