Brian Harvey's answers to the intro questions:

WHERE DID YOU GROW UP? WHAT WAS YOUR PATH TO CAL? 

Manhattan (98th Street, not far from Columbia University).  MIT undergrad
(theoretically in math, but I really majored in the radio station and the
Artificial Intelligence Lab).  Various cool jobs, including writing one of the
first programs that could typeset math formulas, Atari Research, and a short
consulting job at Lucasfilm (not making movies, doing system programming for
the Editdroid video editor).  Two years in Paris as sysadmin at a computer
music research center.  Grad school at Stanford and Berkeley.  Set up a
kid-run computer center at a high school in Massachusetts, which was the most
fun and most intense of all.  Started teaching at Cal in 1987, recruited by
Mike Clancy, who was a former housemate when we were grad students at
Stanford.

HOW MUCH PROGRAMMING HAVE YOU DONE (& WHAT LANGUAGES)?

Way too much, starting with a course in Fortran programming at a Saturday
program for high school kids at Columbia (where I also took several advanced
math courses -- it was and is an amazing opportunity; look up "Science Honors
Program" in Wikipedia).  We would write a program, enter it onto punch cards,
hand it in, and get the result *a week later*!  Often that result was an error
message about a misplaced comma, or something like that.  It was very
frustrating!

After that I learned the low-level machine language for the IBM 7094, the
most popular computer at science research labs at the time, then the machine
language for the DEC PDP-10, my favorite computer ever, then Lisp.  Much
later I learned C.  I've never actually programmed in Java, the language
everyone seems to use these days.

Along the way I dabbled in other languages including Snobol, Cobol, and APL.
But the most important one, for my later career, was Logo, a language for
kids that was developed around MIT near the end of my undergraduate years.
That was one of the things that got me into teaching.  Scratch, the language
we use in this class, is a descendent of Logo.

WHAT ARE YOUR HOBBIES?

I collect art.  Not famous dead artists; most of my collection is local
artists whose work I discover during the wonderful annual Open Studios
events in the east bay, in San Francisco, and on the peninsula.  But I also
try to pick up artworks as souvenirs of everyplace I visit, including
Australia and several European countries.  Some of my favorite artists are at

	http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/~bh/art.html

I have recently discovered that you can buy art on eBay, which is very
dangerous to my budget!

I'm a big fan of 1964-1968 British rock.

I spend two days a week volunteering at Thousand Oaks elementary school,
near where I live in north Berkeley.  During the school day I just help out
with whatever the class is doing, and then after school I teach a Scratch
class for 4th and 5th graders, who are cuter and more energetic than Cal
students, but not as intellectually developed -- it's a tradeoff.

WHAT ARE SOME OF YOUR TALENTS & SKILLS? 

I can bend down the first (outer) knuckle of most of my fingers while keeping
the second knuckle straight, the result of lots of practice as a child.

I'm pretty good at debugging programs.  (Mike Clancy, who's much more into
planning than I am, characterizes my programming technique as "debugging a
blank piece of paper.")

HAVE YOU DONE ANYTHING REMARKABLE? HAS ANYTHING MEMORABLE 
HAPPENED TO YOU? 

I think the most remarkable thing I've done was that high school computer
center.  For a few years we had an amazing, intense, hardworking, supportive
community of kids and teachers; 25 years later my best friends are still
four teachers and about 40 kids who were part of it.  We gave kids keys to
the room, and they were in there unsupervised evenings and weekends, and
none of the equipment was ever stolen or broken as a result.  One of my
favorite stories is about the time I wanted to get some programming work
done at the school without interruption, so I came in on a Sunday morning --
but all the terminals were in use!  And, just as I was walking in, one kid
said to another kid, "I hate school!"  I was ROTFL.

I guess writing my books was remarkable.  I wrote the three-volume
"Computer Science Logo Style," intended for teenagers, and then later
co-wrote "Simply Scheme," the CS 3 text, with Matt Wright, who was at the
time an undergraduate and a TA in CS 61A.  You can read all of those on
my web page, too.

WHAT COMMITMENTS WILL BE CONSUMING YOUR CYCLES THIS SEMESTER?

"Cycles"?  Who wrote these questions, anyway?

I'm teaching or co-teaching four different courses this semester: this one,
the 500-student CS 61A (the first course for majors), a new version of my
Social Implications of Computers class, and the how-to-be-a-TA course for
first-time CS TAs.  Between that and the Thousand Oaks gig, I should keep
pretty busy.

I'm also on the Committee on Admission, Enrollment, and Preparatory Education
of the Berkeley Faculty Senate.  We don't do the actual admissions process,
which is done by full-time admissions staff, but we do set policy.  Since I
joined the committee last year, my goal has been to eliminate the extra GPA
point that we give for AP courses, as a first step toward de-escalating the
college admissions wars.  High school kids are under so much pressure these
days; I don't think I could be admitted to Cal today based on my high school
record, even though it was quite good by the standards of those days.  Kids
are abusing stimulants, not for pleasure, but to be able to stay up all night
to get their homework done.  The result is that a lot of really smart kids end
up not actually interested in anything, which is tragic.

Oh, and I work on Berkeley Logo, a free implementation of Logo, along with
a bunch of undergraduate collaborators.
