CS 10: Beauty and Joy of Computing

Term Paper

	Each student will write a 3-to-5 page paper on a topic broadly related
to one of the lecture topics (abstraction, games, AI, graphics, programming
paradigms, applications, social implications, recursion).  The paper should
not be a reworking of the actual lectures, but should explore another aspect
of one of the topics.

	Here are some example topics.  In the past, students have felt
the need to choose one of these; in fact, these were just the result of
a staff brainstorm.  Please try to think of your own question before
falling back and choosing one of the questions listed below.

* Statistical methods in artificial intelligence
* Military uses of computers
* History of the Internet
* Alan Turing and the Enigma cypher
* Computer-based models of human cognition
* Violence in video games
* Educational video games
* Privacy implications of GPS-enabled cell phones

	DUE WEDNESDAY 11/3:  A half-page to one-page (single spaced) paper
topic proposal.  Try to make the topic narrow enough so that you can actually
do it justice in a short paper.  Also include the beginning of a bibliography
(two or three sources of information you'll read).  The sources may not all be
web pages!  Don't just use Google to produce the bibliography.  Instead, try
melvyl.berkeley.edu (the UC library catalog).

        You may find websites like Wikipedia useful to narrow down your topic,
but do not pick a topic where the resulting paper can be a mere "copy-and-paste"
of the content of a Wikipedia article.  You can, however, use Wikipedia
articles as starting points to branch out to other sources and topics; many
Wikipedia articles cite the sources that they use.

	We'll meet with you that afternoon to go over your proposals.
We may have suggestions about narrowing your topic, or about good sources to
add to your bibliography.

	DUE FRIDAY 11/12:  The complete 3-to-5 page paper (double spaced).

Your paper can be entirely factual (e.g., here's the history of early
computers), or you can stake out an opinion on some topic (e.g., the
convenience of GPS-enabled cell phones is worth the loss of privacy),
but if you present an opinion, we'd like some evidence that you have
read and understood the arguments on the other side.

Grading standard:

10 points	paper proposal
20 points	paper is coherent, on topic, and well-researched
20 points	topic deepens your understanding of CS big ideas
10 points	presentation: grammar, paragraph structure, etc.
